Golem

Okay so the ICO starts on 11 November. Golem (“GNT”) wants to raise a max of $10m.

Send one Ether to a contract and they will give you 1000 GNT tokens. The maximum number of GNT tokens being created is 1 000 000 000. The tokens will be stored in an Ethereum contract (cough, cough… The DAO?). The code is open to public scrutiny and has been audited. The sale runs for three weeks or till the maximum is reached. 18% goes to developers, early investors and the Golem factory which is a company all of whom are locked in for six months.

So, Golem’s big idea is try and monetize idle computational power. You join the Golem network (download the client), run it on your computer, and other people on the network can send your computer work to do and pay you GNT in return.

I rate Golem as follows in terms of my scorecard:

Originality: Not earth shattering, doesn’t WOW on the “I should of thought of that!” factor. It’s a bit like Uber or Airbnb for computing tasks. Major competitors are Amazon web services and Microsoft’s Azure.

Team: As of this writing, there are 16 members. Golem wants to increase that 20, so it looks good. They seem to be able to deliver the product.

Legal: They have gone to extreme lengths on this one, basically you are buying the token for the right to participate on the network. It gives no equity dividends or any rights to how project is run. So basically : No legal issues; it’s like a crowd fund/donation.

Fraud: Definitely looks real, so not a scam.

Liquidity: No mention of the tokens being listed on any exchanges.

What are my impressions? I think this is an extremely ambitious project. The technology depends on IPFS, Docker and Ethereum for payment. It appears they are planning to use IPFS to distribute the work to the computers that will do the work. The actual program to be run will be in a Docker container. Payment will take place via a novel payment mechanism using an Ethereum contract. On the face of it: It’s all doable, with the obvious problems of what if someone tries to run malware on my computer and how do I know they have run the computation correctly. The team is aware of all of these issues. They have an Alpha release which I downloaded and it ran. The issue is it’s a specific type of graphics processing task, not a general computation.

They are quite open that this project is R&D and $10m will fund them for four years. This seems reasonable.

The rub is: What if they don’t raise $10m and can only deliver part of the project? This means its probably only worth investing once they get near the $10m target. If you do want to invest, maybe watch the contract and jump in when it gets near $10m. Ethereum has a 15s block time so it should be relatively easy to do, or program a bot.

For me this initiative looks way too experimental. I will keep my my ammo dry on this one. If it takes off, I will be buying GNT on an exchange for a lot more, but that’s the price of risk.

