ICO in less than 24hrs

Details: vDice is up and running and taking bets now. It’s a fully decentralised version of SatoshiDice. It uses an Oracle to determine a random number, from what I see they are using Oracalize. Also using TLSNotary. Main competitors presently are BETKING and Primedice. For those who love hacks see this link <a href="https://www.cryptocoinsnews.com/player-cheated-online-bitcoin-gaming-site-1-million-reward-offered-help/Primedice hack">PrimeDice hack</a>

They are issuing a ECR20 token called vSlice. Pricing is as follows

Week 1 = 1 : 130
Week 2 = 1 : 120
Weeks 3 & 4 = 1 : 1
There is maximum of 96 million vSlice tokens. So $7.3m assuming maximum discount of 130 vSlice versus 1 Ether and Ether at $10. It will be allocated as follows:

Legal and compliance 23%
Expenses and Salaries and rewards 23%
Expenses and rewards for crowd sale 15%
Development of new projects 39%
Now here’s where it gets interesting, you don’t buy the vSlice token to access the platform, you buy it to participate in the profits. Are there legal issues with this? You betcha there are!

Profit participation is not quite clear to me, but here goes:

They say: “Under current Smart Contract system for vSlice token, 50% of the house wins go to investors through the Token system (The other 50% goes to investors in the conventional system of investing in the Smart Contracts, as house, directly).”

The example they give is: “Now, assuming bankroll is 150,000 ETH, an investment of 100 ETH will hold a 0.067% share. Which means that the investor is making, on average, 0.0469 ETH daily. So, in one year, the investor is making 16.884 which would be a 16.88% ROI for the year.”

Which you have to admit is a massive return!

So, here are my thoughts based on my scorecard:

Originality: None: basically it’s SatoshiDice for Ethereum. Satoshi was extremely popular on the Bitcoin network as sort of tumbler. People deposited their Bitcoin, waited a while and then withdrew it. vDice claims 50% of transactions on Bitcoin are gambling, definitely true up until 2013. Not so sure about now, but it still remains true that online gambling is seen as a profitable venture.

Team: When I first started looking, I saw this: “We’re a team of devil-may-care Ethereum enthusiasts. We like decentralisation, software, blockchains…You know, all the stuff you probably like, seeing as you’re here.”

Nothing wrong here, except it told us nothing about the actual team, since then they have disclosed the team members. On the face of it, they look like they can deliver.

Platform: They are using Ethereum and issuing, what is fast becoming the standard, an ERC20 Token. This is a good thing. The Ethereum platform is slowly but surely becoming more and more battle tested and it’s relativily easy to develop on, which means the team’s technical skills don’t need to be that good, they can depend on the Ethereum technology.

In their own words: “We are fans of simplicity at vDice. Complexity is the enemy of security. And vDice is a security focused organization. “

Legal: There are almost certainly legal issues: its gambling! They have enlisted the counsel of three Top law firms, Arnold and Porter LLP, Bracewell LLP and Cahill Gordon & Reindel. Of course it’s difficult to confirm that the services of these firms have actually been retained.

Valuation: One anecdote that I have learnt trading: It’s ok to miss a trade, there will always be another. Always be in a position where you can afford to be patient. With the ICO market looking a bit bubbly, its hard to value these tokens. Remember they are options, with an extremely high volatility: the higher the volatility the more valuable. Unfortunately if too many people buy into the hype, the tokens become overvalued extremely quickly. So treat them simply, they are not equity. They are akin to a bet. So bet 1 ether get back a multiple of 1 ether or lose 1 ether. If you can estimate the probability better than the average punter, then you make money. So in the case of vDice, I dont think the technology is particulary awesome. But, they are relying on the Ethereum technology and the Ethereum Network. What do they bring? Marketing. Would I pay a lot for that? It’s hard to tell: justlook at the Kim Kardashian phenomenom. They could actually pull it off.

Liquidity: Pretty sure vSlice will be traded on exchanges or Shapeshift or my new favourite EtherDelta.

Fraud: Seems like its not just a take your Ether and run.

In conclusion, this is very different to Golem. You’re not buying into a technology vision, you are buying into their ability to become the premier casino on the Ethereum network. So it’s a marketing company. So far, from what I have seen their marketing is pretty good. There certainly are legal issues, the token does not give you the right to participate in the network, it gives you rights to the profits, so there are SEC issues. It’s gambling so there are big issues around US customers. Am I going to invest? I dunno, I might. I will watch it it with interest. It’s going to be very interesting to see how it performs compared to Golem.

